Color, Simply.

AARON began over thirty years ago as research directed to a deeper
understanding of how we make and read images, beyond what twenty years as a
professional artist had revealed.  AARON was an <i>expert system</i> drawing
program that exhibited a distinctive <i>art personality;</i> the
program--not just its output--was widely exhibited during its first ten
years.  Of the many thousands of original drawings it generated, some were
colored by hand and a few turned into paintings.  The problem of having a
sightless program control something as fundamentally visual as color
appeared intractable; in the mid-eighties, the first rule-based version
showed it might be possible.  Twenty years later, AARON is a world-class
colorist.

This talk provides some background on the technology of color control, and
presents an overview of how the program's expertise developed, resting
finally upon a change from the implicit representation of knowledge in the
rules provided by the author, to an explicit representation in structures
made available to the program itself.  That change has made it possible to
replace the program's extensive rule-base with a remarkably simple algorithm
that not only performs as well as the previous versions, but commands a much
wider range of coloring strategies.

Harold Cohen

Harold Cohen grew up in London, where he studied painting at the Slade
School of Fine Art.  In the 1960s he exhibited widely, representing the UK
in the Venice Bienalle in 1966, documenta-5 in Germany and in museums and
exhibitions around the world.  In 1968 he went to California for a one-year
visiting professorship at UC San Diego, met his first computer and never
returned to London.  From 1972-74 he was a visiting scholar at the Stanford
AI Lab, and began work on AARON.  AARON/HC have exhibited at the Tate
Gallery in London, the Brooklyn Museum, the San Francisco Museum of Modern
Art, Boston's Computer Museum and many other venues, including Tsukuba,
Japan, representing the US in the 1986 World Fair.  Cohen was founding
director of the Center for Research in Computing and the Arts at UCSD.  He
retired from teaching in 1995, and continues work on AARON at his home near
San Diego.
