Where's My Compiler? Developer Tools: Past, Present, and Future

This talk is about the evolution of what is today called "the tool chain,"
and specifically how the role of the compiler has changed over the last 50
years.  I'll talk about how a modern compiler must balance the need to
produce high-quality output code with the requirement that the compiler
itself execute quickly.  And I'll talk about how compiler technology has
been absorbed into other parts of the software environment -- some of them
obvious, but some of them probably a bit surprising.

Jim Miller

Jim Miller has designed and implemented a number of novel and useful
real-world systems over more than thirty years, including: the Microsoft
Common Language Runtime (and its shared source implementation, ROTOR); the
PICS Internet content selection system (1995); the first public
implementation of Dylan (Thomas, 1993); the MultiScheme paralle programming
system (1989); the first portable Scheme implementation (CScheme, 1983); the
first full-function e-mail system (Hermes, 1976); and the first source-level
debugger for a high-level language (BDDT, 1972).

Since 1998 Jim has worked at Microsoft Corporation on the design and
development of the Common Language Runtime (CLR).  He served as editor for
the ISO Standard on a Common Language Infrastructure.  He's currently a
software architect on the Developer Frameworks team. His current work is on
versioning in an object-oriented system and on bringing the CLR to a wider
range of programming languages as well as client-side and web-based
applications.

Prior to his work at Microsoft, Jim created and headed the Computers and
Society domain at the World Wide Web Consortium to work on issues ranging
from child protection to electronic commerce to privacy protection to
accessibility for the disabled.  He has also been on the research staff at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the faculty of Brandeis
University, the research staff of Digital Equipment Corporation, and the
research staff at Bolt, Beranek, and Newman.
